README.md, before:

# Voyager <!-- omit in toc -->
Custom made Discord bot designed to help the Lab Path community.
<!-- [Invite me!](https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=804537849747734578&scope=bot&permissions=519232) -->

# Table of contents <!-- omit in toc --> 
- [Set-up](#set-up)
- [Development](#development)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [`.env`](#env)
- [Directories](#directories)
- [Creating new commands](#creating-new-commands)
- [Embeds](#embeds)
- [Database](#database)

# Set-up
1. Clone this repository.
2. Run `npm i` in terminal to install dependencies.
3. Create `.env` file at root directory (same level as `package.json`). Check [`.env`](#env) for more info.
4. Run `npm run dev` to start the bot.
5. Use `Ctrl + C` to stop the bot.

# Development
Do not commit directly to `master`, please create a Branch first (with a suggestive name based on your changes) and then ask for a merge.

# Documentation
* [Discord Developer portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications/804537849747734578/bot)
* [discord.js docs](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/main/stable/general/welcome)
* [Discord JS Guides](https://discordjs.guide/)

# Commands
In order to use a command, you'll need to type the prefix of the bot and then the command. For example: `@Voyager ping`

| Command | Description    |
| :-----: | :------------- |
| `ping`  | Pings the bot. |

# `.env`
The environment file has various variables that Voyager uses:

|    Variable     | Description                                                                                                            |
| :-------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `VOYAGER_TOKEN` | The Token given by Discord. You can get it [here](https://discord.com/developers/applications/804537849747734578/bot). |
|    `DB_USER`    | Database user name.                                                                                                    |
|  `DB_PASSWORD`  | Database password.                                                                                                     |
|    `DB_NAME`    | Database name.                                                                                                         |

Example `.env` file:
```
VOYAGER_TOKEN=KLJAGN876WQ34M98UWSEF9O7J8WYM3RMY8O9SHEF
DB_USER=db_username
DB_PASSWORD=db_password
DB_NAME=db_name
```

# Directories
Voyager has various directories, each with their respective purpose:

|   Directory    | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| :------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|   `commands`   | A collection of `.js` files that each represent one command.                                                                                            |
|   `database`   | A collection of folders and `.js` files that are anything database related.                                                                             |
|     `lib`      | A collection of `.js` files whose purpose is to have functions available to main files. These files will always export a function that returns a value. |
|    `utils`     | A folder with folders for any type of files without **code**.                                                                                           |
| `utils/assets` | A collection of images used throughout the project.                                                                                                     |

# Creating new commands
It's actually pretty simple which is cool. Create a new file with the name of the command inside the `commands` folder. Paste the following code inside:
```js
// Require: Libs
const helper = require('../lib/helper')

// Require: Files
const config = require('../config.json')

// Exports
module.exports = {
    name: 'commandName',
	aliases: ['alias1', 'alias2'],
	permissions: ['PERMISSION1', 'PERMISSION2'],
	devOnly: false,
    needsDatabaseGuild: false,
    channelTypes: ['dm', 'text', 'news'],
    execute(message, args, dbGuild) {
		// Check for Bot permissions
        const objectPermissions = helper.checkBotPermissions(message, this.permissions)
        if (objectPermissions.necessary.length != 0)
            return message.channel.send(helper.generatePermissionLink(objectPermissions, message))
        // If devOnly == true and user has permissions
        if (this.devOnly && !dbGuild.developers.includes(message.author.id))
            return message.channel.send(config.texts.userLacksPerms)
        // Check if in correct channel type
        if (!helper.checkChannelType(message, this.channelTypes))
            return message.channel.send(config.texts.wrongChannel)
			
		// Your code here
        // Can also be async code. Just put "async" before "execute(message, args)"
    }
}
```

* `name`: `String`. Cannot have any spaces. Using `@Voyager commandName` triggers `execute()`.
* `aliases`: `Array` of `strings`. Each entry cannot have any spaces. Using `@Voyager alias1` triggers `execute()`.
* `permissions`: `Array` of `strings`. Each entry has to be a [permission flag](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/main/stable/class/Permissions?scrollTo=s-FLAGS).
* `devOnly`: `Boolean`. If set to true, indicates only a "developer" is able to run the command.
* `needsDatabaseGuild`: `Boolean`. If set to true, gets dbGuild from the database.
* `channelTypes`: `Array`. Possible entries are `dm`, `text` and `news`. Used to check if command was called in correct channel type.

What do the `execute()` arguments mean?
* `message`: The whole message object discord.js offers. Pretty cool if you ask me.
* `args`: Any type of arguments sent along with the command. Ex: `!ping haha hehe => ['haha', 'hehe']`

If you're unsure, a simple `console.log(message)` and `console.log(args)` will most likely help you!

# Embeds
Embeds are arguably the prettiest things on Discord. Let's use them! 

The best way to use them, is to call the `lib/embeds.js` file and use its functions to generate an embed. If you want a very specific embed, and think it's not worth to create a function for it, here's a quick snippet to create one:
```js
// Require: Packages
const discord = require('discord.js');

// Embed
const exampleEmbed = new discord.MessageEmbed()
	.setColor('#0099ff') // Hex color for the stripe on the side
	.setTitle('Some title') // Title of the embed
	.setDescription('Some description here') // Main message
	.setURL('https://discord.js.org/') // Small image in the top right corner
	.setThumbnail('https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Big picture in the bottom
	.addFields(
		{ name: 'Regular field title', value: 'Some value here' },
		{ name: 'Inline field title', value: 'Some value here', inline: true },
	)
	.addField('Inline field title', 'Some value here', true) // Inline filed
	.setFooter('Some footer text here', 'https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Footer text
	.setImage('https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Footer image

// Send embed
message.channel.send(exampleEmbed)
```

# Database
Voyager uses MongoDB as its database of choice, which is hosted at mongoDB atlas (AWS in this case). There's a **max of 500MB** free usable space. Anything related to the database should be inside the `database` folder. If you're a developer and want to have access to the DB through the Web (using Atlas), please create an account [here](https://account.mongodb.com/account/register) and ask @Zebiano for an invite.

* `Guild`: Stores various info about every guild the bot is in.

Commit message:

Add: Development Voyager version
Add: `.env` variable check
Update: `README.md` with development info
Add: `process.exit()` to `lib/helper.js` functions
Remove: `voyager.prefix` and `voyager.client_id` from `config.json`. These are now part of the `.env` file.

README.md, after:

# Voyager <!-- omit in toc -->
Custom made Discord bot designed to help the Lab Path community. Invite [me](https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=804537849747734578&scope=bot&permissions=519232) (or my brother [dev](https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=806532302335115335&scope=bot&permissions=519232))!

# Table of contents <!-- omit in toc --> 
- [Set-up](#set-up)
- [Development](#development)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Commands](#commands)
- [`.env`](#env)
- [Directories](#directories)
- [Creating new commands](#creating-new-commands)
- [Embeds](#embeds)
- [Database](#database)

# Set-up
1. Clone this repository.
2. Run `npm i` in terminal to install dependencies.
3. Create `.env` file at root directory (same level as `package.json`). Check [`.env`](#env) for more info.
4. Run `npm run dev` to start the bot.
5. Use `Ctrl + C` to stop the bot.

# Development
In order to have the main bot running while developing new commands, there are two different bots (each with their own `token` and `Client ID`): one for Production and for Development. Which you want to be using has to be defined in the [`.env`](#env) file.

**Do not commit directly to `master`**, please create a Branch first (with a suggestive name based on your changes) and choose a reviewer to take a look at it. If changes are approved, feel free to `Squash and Merge`!

# Documentation
* [Discord Developer portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications/804537849747734578/bot)
* [discord.js docs](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/main/stable/general/welcome)
* [Discord JS Guides](https://discordjs.guide/)

# Commands
In order to use a command, you'll need to type the prefix of the bot and then the command. For example: `@Voyager ping`

| Command | Description    |
| :------ | :------------- |
| `ping`  | Pings the bot. |

# `.env`
The environment file has various variables that Voyager uses:

| Variable            | Description                                                                                                                |
| :------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `VOYAGER_TOKEN`     | The Token given by Discord. You can get it [here](https://discord.com/developers/applications/804537849747734578/bot).     |
| `VOYAGER_CLIENT_ID` | The Client ID given by Discord. You can get it [here](https://discord.com/developers/applications/804537849747734578/bot). |
| `VOYAGER_PREFIX`    | The bot prefix.                                                                                                            |
| `DB_USER`           | Database user name.                                                                                                        |
| `DB_PASSWORD`       | Database password.                                                                                                         |
| `DB_NAME`           | Database name.                                                                                                             |

Example `.env` file:
```
VOYAGER_TOKEN=KLJAGN876WQ34M98UWSEF9O7J8WYM3RMY8O9SHEF
VOYAGER_CLIENT_ID=123456789456123
VOYAGER_PREFIX=<@!123456789456123>
VOYAGER_DB_USER=db_username
VOYAGER_DB_PASSWORD=db_password
VOYAGER_DB_NAME=db_name
```

# Directories
Voyager has various directories, each with their respective purpose:

| Directory      | Description                                                                                                                                             |
| :------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `commands`     | A collection of `.js` files that each represent one command.                                                                                            |
| `database`     | A collection of folders and `.js` files that are anything database related.                                                                             |
| `lib`          | A collection of `.js` files whose purpose is to have functions available to main files. These files will always export a function that returns a value. |
| `utils`        | A folder with folders for any type of files without **code**.                                                                                           |
| `utils/assets` | A collection of images used throughout the project.                                                                                                     |

# Creating new commands
It's actually pretty simple which is cool. Create a new file with the name of the command inside the `commands` folder. Paste the following code inside:
```js
// Require: Libs
const helper = require('../lib/helper')

// Require: Files
const config = require('../config.json')

// Exports
module.exports = {
    name: 'commandName',
	aliases: ['alias1', 'alias2'],
	permissions: ['PERMISSION1', 'PERMISSION2'],
	devOnly: false,
    needsDatabaseGuild: false,
    channelTypes: ['dm', 'text', 'news'],
    execute(message, args, dbGuild) {
		// Check for Bot permissions
        const objectPermissions = helper.checkBotPermissions(message, this.permissions)
        if (objectPermissions.necessary.length != 0)
            return message.channel.send(helper.generatePermissionLink(objectPermissions, message))
        // If devOnly == true and user has permissions
        if (this.devOnly && !dbGuild.developers.includes(message.author.id))
            return message.channel.send(config.texts.userLacksPerms)
        // Check if in correct channel type
        if (!helper.checkChannelType(message, this.channelTypes))
            return message.channel.send(config.texts.wrongChannel)
			
		// Your code here
        // Can also be async code. Just put "async" before "execute(message, args)"
    }
}
```

* `name`: `String`. Cannot have any spaces. Using `@Voyager commandName` triggers `execute()`.
* `aliases`: `Array` of `strings`. Each entry cannot have any spaces. Using `@Voyager alias1` triggers `execute()`.
* `permissions`: `Array` of `strings`. Each entry has to be a [permission flag](https://discord.js.org/#/docs/main/stable/class/Permissions?scrollTo=s-FLAGS).
* `devOnly`: `Boolean`. If set to true, indicates only a "developer" is able to run the command.
* `needsDatabaseGuild`: `Boolean`. If set to true, gets dbGuild from the database.
* `channelTypes`: `Array`. Possible entries are `dm`, `text` and `news`. Used to check if command was called in correct channel type.

What do the `execute()` arguments mean?
* `message`: The whole message object discord.js offers. Pretty cool if you ask me.
* `args`: Any type of arguments sent along with the command. Ex: `!ping haha hehe => ['haha', 'hehe']`

If you're unsure, a simple `console.log(message)` and `console.log(args)` will most likely help you!

# Embeds
Embeds are arguably the prettiest things on Discord. Let's use them! 

The best way to use them, is to call the `lib/embeds.js` file and use its functions to generate an embed. If you want a very specific embed, and think it's not worth to create a function for it, here's a quick snippet to create one:
```js
// Require: Packages
const discord = require('discord.js');

// Embed
const exampleEmbed = new discord.MessageEmbed()
	.setColor('#0099ff') // Hex color for the stripe on the side
	.setTitle('Some title') // Title of the embed
	.setDescription('Some description here') // Main message
	.setURL('https://discord.js.org/') // Small image in the top right corner
	.setThumbnail('https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Big picture in the bottom
	.addFields(
		{ name: 'Regular field title', value: 'Some value here' },
		{ name: 'Inline field title', value: 'Some value here', inline: true },
	)
	.addField('Inline field title', 'Some value here', true) // Inline filed
	.setFooter('Some footer text here', 'https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Footer text
	.setImage('https://i.imgur.com/wSTFkRM.png') // Footer image

// Send embed
message.channel.send(exampleEmbed)
```

# Database
Voyager uses MongoDB as its database of choice, which is hosted at mongoDB atlas (AWS in this case). There's a **max of 500MB** free usable space. Anything related to the database should be inside the `database` folder. If you're a developer and want to have access to the DB through the Web (using Atlas), please create an account [here](https://account.mongodb.com/account/register) and ask @Zebiano for an invite.

* `Guild`: Stores various info about every guild the bot is in.
